RHIDP-3836 Audit log: Audit log changes for RHDH 1.3 (#486)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/getting-started/proc-audit-log-file-rotation.adoc

// Module included in the following assembly:
// assembly-audit-log.adoc

[id="proc-audit-log-file-rotation_{context}"]

> = Configure Audit Log file rotation

Reviewer: If this is a procedural module, the heading should ideally begin with a gerund.
```suggestion
= Configuring Audit Log file rotation
```

You can enable file rotation for audit logs in {product}, and configure the file log location, name format, log file size, and archiving.

.Prerequisite

* You are an administrator of {product-short}.

.Procedure

. Enable audit logging to a rotating file:
+

> [source, yaml]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example YAML file to enable audit logging
[source, yaml]
```

----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    enabled: true
----
+
. Customize the log file location:
+

> [source, yaml]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example customization of log file location
[source, yaml]
```

----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    logFileDirPath: /custom-path <1>
----

> <1> An absolute path is recommended.

Reviewer: As per IBMSG, avoid word recommended. See the screenshot below:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d866f77a-1206-4862-9ed3-8ffd074d6e4d)

```suggestion
<1> Absolute path to the log file.
```

+
[NOTE]
====

> The specified directory will be created automatically if it does not exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specified directory is created automatically if it does not exist.
```

====
+
. Customize the log file name format:
+
.Example default log file name format
[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    logFileName: custom-audit-log-%DATE%.log
----
+
. Configure file rotation frequency:
+
.Example of file rotation frequency
[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    frequency: '12h' # Default: `custom`
    dateFormat: 'YYYY-MM-DD' # Default: `YYYY-MM-DD`
    utc: false # Default: `false` #<1>
    maxSize: 100m # Default: undefined
----
<1> Set to `utc` to `true` to use UTC time for `dateFormat` instead of local time.
+
[NOTE]
====
The default file rotation occurs daily at 00:00 local time.
====
+
. Set a maximum log file size:
+
.Example of maximum log file size
[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    maxSize: 100m # Sets a max file size limit of 100MB for audit log
----

. Configure a retention policy by the number of files to keep or by the number of days to retain:
+

> .Example yaml number of files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example YAML code for number of files
```

[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    maxFilesOrDays: 14 # Deletes the oldest log when there are more than 14 log files
----
+

> .Example yaml number of days

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example YAML code for number of days
```

[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    maxFilesOrDays: 5d # Deletes logs older than 5 days
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> * If log deletion is enabled, a `.<sha256 hash>-audit.json` is generated in the directory where the logs are to track generated logs. Any log file not contained in the directory is not subject to automatic deletion.

Reviewer: I'd suggest adding a context statement explaining the note before the bullet points.

* A new `.<sha256 hash>-audit.json` file is generated each time the backend starts, which causes previous audit logs to stop being tracked or deleted, except for those still in use by the current backend.
====
+

> . Archive and compress rotated logs using gzip:

Reviewer: Is it gzip or zip?
```suggestion
. Archive and compress rotated logs using `gzip`:
```

Author: It's gzip as it is compressing a single file, in this case a single rotating file. zip would mean there's a central directory at the end and random access to each entry.

// Module included in the following assembly:
// assembly-audit-log.adoc

[id="proc-audit-log-file-rotation_{context}"]

> = Configuring Audit Log file rotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring audit log file rotation
```

+
[NOTE]
====
The default file rotation occurs daily at 00:00 local time.
====
+
. Set a maximum log file size:
+
.Example maximum log file size
[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    maxSize: 100m # Sets a max file size limit of 100MB for audit log
----

. Configure a retention policy by the number of files to keep or by the number of days to retain:
+
.Example of number of files
[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    maxFilesOrDays: 14 # Deletes the oldest log when there are more than 14 log files
----
+
.Example of number of days
[source, yaml]
----
auditLog:
  rotateFile:
    maxFilesOrDays: 5d # Deletes logs older than 5 days
----
+
[NOTE]
====
* By default, log files are not archived or deleted. If log deletion is enabled, then a `.<sha256 hash>-audit.json` is generated in the directory where the logs are to track generated logs. Any log file not contained in the directory is not subject to automatic deletion.
* A new `.<sha256 hash>-audit.json` file is generated each time the backend starts, which causes previous audit logs to stop being tracked or deleted, except for those still in use by the current backend.
====
+

> . Archive and compress rotated logs using `gzip``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Archive and compress rotated logs using `gzip`:
```

+

> [source, yaml]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example of archiving or compressing rotated logs
[source, yaml]
```
